*This project has been created as part of the 42 curriculum by sopelet*
<br>
<br>
<h3>Description</h3>
<h4>Mandatory Part</h4>

The goal of the push_swap project is pretty simple: it must display the shortest sequence of instructions needed to sort the integers given as parameters.
<br>

Here are the permitted operations for the push_swap project:  
* **sa** (swap a): Swap the first 2 elements at the top of stack a. Do nothing if there is only one element or none.  
* **sb** (swap b): Swap the first 2 elements at the top of stack b. Do nothing if there is only one element or none.  
* **ss**: sa and sb at the same time.  
* **pa** (push a): Take the first element at the top of b and put it at the top of a. Do nothing if b is empty.  
* **pb** (push b): Take the first element at the top of a and put it at the top of b. Do nothing if a is empty.  
* **ra** (rotate a): Shift up all elements of stack a by 1. The first element becomes the last one.  
* **rb** (rotate b): Shift up all elements of stack b by 1. The first element becomes the last one.  
* **rr**: ra and rb at the same time.  
* **rra** (reverse rotate a): Shift down all elements of stack a by 1. The last element becomes the first one.  
* **rrb** (reverse rotate b): Shift down all elements of stack b by 1. The last element becomes the first one.  
* **rrr**: rra and rrb at the same time.  
For maximum project validation, **100** random numbers must be sorted in less than **700 operations** and **500** random numbers must be sorted in no more than **5500 operations**.
<br>
In case of error, "Error\n" will be displayed on the standard error.
<br>
<h2>Bonus Part</h2>
The Bonus part consists on making a checker that verify whether the list of instructions generated by the push_swap program sorts the given integers properly.
<br>
It must return "OK" if the list is sorted, "KO" if it's not.
<br>
In case of error, "Error\n" will be displayed on the standard error.
<br>
<h3>Instructions</h3>
<h4>Mandatory Part</h4>

* Compile the push_swap program using:  
```make```  
* Run the program using:  
```./push_swap list_of_integers```  
* Remove the objects files using:  
```make clean```  
* Remove the objects file and the executable using:  
```make fclean```  
* Clean and remake everything using:  
```make re```  

<h4>Bonus Part</h4>

* Compile the push_swap program using:  
```make bonus```  
* There are two ways to use the checker program:  
    1. Execute the push_swap program with the integers of your choice and copy the output to your clipboard. Run the checker with the same integers. Press ```Enter``` and paste the instructions. Press ```Ctrl + D```.
    2. Pipe the output of push_swap to the checker.  
        ```./push_swap list_of_int | ./checker list_of_int```  
* Remove the objects files using:  
```make clean```  
* Remove the objects file and the executable using:  
```make fclean```  
* Clean and remake everything using:  
```make re```  

<h3>Resources</h3>

* About sorting algorithms:  
I read a lot of documentation about the different sorting algorithms to have an overview of what exists and their time and space complexity.  
[Quick Sort](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dsa/quick-sort-algorithm/)  
[Merge Sort](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dsa/merge-sort/)  
[Radix Sort](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dsa/radix-sort/)  
I also checked some articles that former students wrote to explain the reflexion behind their algorithm.  
[Jamie Dawson](https://medium.com/@jamierobertdawson/push-swap-the-least-amount-of-moves-with-two-stacks-d1e76a71789a)  
[Leo Fu](https://medium.com/nerd-for-tech/push-swap-tutorial-fa746e6aba1e)  
[Yutong Deng](https://pure-forest.medium.com/push-swap-turk-algorithm-explained-in-6-steps-4c6650a458c0)  
* About AI use:  
AI was used as an educational tool. It was used to have a better understanding of the different sorting algorithms and of the push_swap project in general.